Your most valuable AI skill is actually
saying no. When was the last time you
said no to AI? I I say no all the time.
Not no to using AI, but no to AI output
that sucks, that's not good enough. And
I realize I reject much more AI
generated work than I accept because it
has the wrong framing, because it has
sloppy reasoning, because it has
confident sounding analysis that would
not survive contact with anyone who
actually understands the domain. I send
it back. I explain why. And by the way,
this is not necessarily a function of
like superpowered prompting. You can
prompt really well and if you know your
domain, if you have high taste, you're
still saying no a lot. When I want to
see if someone is good at AI, I check
how much they say no. And then I say no
again because the explanation I gave
last time might have gotten the model
from 90 to 95% but my bar is higher. I
believe learning to say no is one of the
missing skills in this whole nebulous
judgment and taste category that
everyone's waving at. It's not
necessarily prompting. It's not workflow
design, although those are valuable.
It's not even model selection. The
ability to look at AI output and say
this is wrong and this is why is a huge
component of how you identify quality.
And so I want to argue that we should
treat rejection as the real AI skill. I
want to argue that every skilled
rejection creates institutional
knowledge that did not exist before and
that we as individuals and we in our
teams can compound those rejections into
much more durable constraints if we
start to pay attention to them and we
haven't been. I want to suggest to you
that you probably don't track the
patterns that you say no to. But there
are patterns. If you start to keep
patterns, if you start to find ways to
scale your nose, you start to map the
dimensions of rejection as a core
competency, you start to think about
what does recognition of something bad
look like systematically? What does
articulating what needs to change about
something bad systematically look like?
What does encoding that into a system
that you can then hand to AI and say,
"I've said this before. I don't need to
say it again because you now see my nose
as a system. What does that look like?
And yes, we're going to get to that.
Taste is a scalable asset. People love
to say, but what people don't talk about
is that taste, if it's locked inside
your human brain, ends up stressing you
out because you look at all of this pile
of AI generated output that's gone up
10x or 100x or a thousandx and you're
like, I don't know. I'm supposed to have
taste across this, whatever that means.
You're not going to get there if you
don't learn how to both reject what's
bad and also systematize your rejection
so that you can start to scale that a
little bit. Your rejections are more
valuable than your prompts. Yes, I said
it. So, what happens in this moment of
rejection? The person applying domain
expertise the AI doesn't have is able to
identify a specific gap between, hey,
this looks right and this actually is
correct. and they can articulate a
constraint that wasn't an explicit rule
before they said it. So a strategy
partner might send back an AI generated
competitive analysis and say look
where's our proprietary insight on
customer switching costs here. Any firm
with access to the same model could have
produced the framing that I'm seeing
here. And there you go. You're
differentiating the firm's work from
commodity output. or a loan officer that
rejects a covenant tracking prototype
might say you can't treat a debt service
coverage ratio the same as a minimum net
worth requirement. Those have completely
different monitoring triggers and
they're just specifying business logic
that no requirements doc is going to
capture. An editor might kill a draft
saying the thesis is buried in paragraph
4. You got to lead with provocation. Now
we're encoding an editorial standard.
I'm including a range here. You notice I
didn't lead with tech. I included a loan
officer. I included a strategy partner.
I included an editor because this is
about knowledge work. This is about
anything we do with computers. These
kinds of rejections are not null.
They're not void. They're actually
knowledge creation events. We're not
capturing them mostly, but they are. And
the thing I'm not hearing anyone say is,
hey, how do we take these and scale our
nose? And how do we take these and let
this moment of rejection become a
valuable moment that scales in our AI
workflow? Because the knowledge created
in that moment, the constraint, the
rule, the encoded taste, that compounds
if you let it. But right now, for almost
everybody, it evaporates. It lives in an
email thread. It lives in a chat window.
It lives in a Slack message. Nobody
really captures it. Nobody compounds it.
And so the same rejection happens
tomorrow when the deck comes back and
the strategy partner says, "Well, our
proprietary insight on customer
switching costs is missing." Again, most
of the AI skill markets are focused on
generation skills. If you take a course,
it's all about what are your generative
AI skills? Do you prompt? Do you design
workflows? Do you select tools? Maybe
it's multimodel orchestration. And
they're all typically aimed at can you
produce more? Can you produce faster?
Look, production has been solved. You do
need those skills, but fundamentally
that is not the bottleneck. AI can
generate a strategy deck or a
competitive analysis or a product spec
or a working application before lunch.
The generation side is now effectively a
commodity. OpenAI's GDP val, the most
rigorous measurement we have against
actual knowledge work, shows frontier
models beating or tying professionals
with an average of 14 years of
experience. 70% of the time on
head-to-head comparisons and they do it
100 times faster for less than 1% of the
cost. And these tasks are created by
those professionals, graded by those
professionals in a double blind manner.
And the models are still winning most of
the comparisons. And everyone tends to
read this as either a story of AI
capability or a story of workforce
demise. Both of these are much less
interesting readings. The more
interesting reading is, if AI now
matches your best people's output 70% of
the time on wellsp specified tasks, what
determines the rest of the story? What
happens to the 70% that looks right on
the surface but leaves the lab and
doesn't hit production correctly? What
happens to the 30% where the AI just
completely whiffs? The answer is the
same in both cases. Someone has to look
at the output and know. And it turns out
that the way you look at the output and
know is by saying the word no a lot.
It's by looking at a product spec and
saying this doesn't reliably encode
business intent. It's by saying this
code demos beautifully but it's not
going to actually work in production and
here's why. This analysis is technically
correct but there's no so what here. And
this is something that there is no good
metric to measure on AI capability. And
I want to suggest that if you're
operating at that frontier, if you're
trying to figure out how AI can be
practically applied, then look at
rejection. Look at no as a skill and
look at it as a competency that you
break down into multiple dimensions.
Almost nobody's looking at this and
measuring it deliberately. One, check in
on your recognition. Look at the ability
to detect that something is wrong. This
is the part that depends on domain
experience. It's hard to shortcut this.
Junior analysts will not catch flawed
regulatory assumptions without that deep
experience that senior analysts have.
Loan officers might not spot those
covenant logic errors because they
haven't seen enough deals. You get the
idea. Recognition is the product of
years of practice. And it's the reason
experienced domain experts are becoming
more valuable, not less. as AI floods
every organization with lots and lots of
output. So, the person who's reviewed
2,000 deals and can just feel when
something is off is becoming the most
important person in the building, not
despite AI, but because of it. And
recognition is the dimension most
enhanced by AI. A domain expert with
very strong recognition and access to AI
tools can evaluate 10 times the output
that they could before. The leverage is
very multiplicative, but it only works
inside the boundary of their expertise.
Inside that boundary, AI is a force
multiplier, but outside of it, AI
multiplies confidence, not expertise.
And that's worse. Articulation is
another key skill in this sort of larger
rejection skill set. It's the ability to
explain why something is wrong in a way
that produces a usable constraint. This
isn't right. That's just a rejection.
this isn't right because you're treating
all of these requirements identically
and the PRD actually needs to be
structured this way. That's a
constraint. It's the difference between
taste that stays in someone's head and
taste that we can start to encode and
share with the team and begin to apply
at scale. This is a learnable skill, but
almost nobody's teaching it. Ironically,
GDP val's methodology illustrates why
this is important. Every task in GDP val
went through five rounds of expert
review. Every review had a rejection
event. An expert looking at a task and
saying this is not representative enough
or this isn't clear enough for
evaluation. That iterative refinement
through rejection is what made the
benchmark interesting and useful. The
expert taste therefore didn't just
evaluate the AI, it built the evaluation
infrastructure. Articulation is what
turns taste from a personal attribute
into something that the organization can
use as an asset. Encoding is the
practice of making that constraint
persist beyond the moment of rejection.
And that's another skill in this
cluster. This is where everything tends
to break down right now because you have
someone who articulates a constraint and
it lives in an email and then next
quarter a different team will make the
same mistake because the constraint was
never captured anywhere durable and the
reasoning has to be recreated from
scratch. and the time that you're
spending is getting burned on that same
fight with the AI over and over again.
Andre Carpathy's framework that AI
systems improve fastest where success
can be verified has very direct
implications here. Verification
infrastructure that enables AI
improvement does not just magically
emerge. It's built often off of encoded
rejections. When you have a test suite
with multiple acceptance criteria, when
you have quality gates, when you have
business rules in your system that work,
you are looking at outputs and saying no
with enough precision that no could be
made permanent. What you need to do is
think about scaling that to the daily
practice of rejection that every good AI
practitioner now does today. Here's
where things get interesting. If you
start to do this, if you start to
properly encode your rejection so
they're durable, reusable constraints,
then you are now building a flywheel,
you're not really scaling experts,
you're scaling the encoded residue of
expert judgment. You're scaling the
outputs of human judgment. And this
starts to compound across an
organization's footprint. So if you're a
consulting firm that encodes partner
rejections across thousands of
engagement, you're effectively building
a repeatable institutional bar for
quality at that firm that no competitor
can replicate by just subscribing to the
same AI model APIs. If you're a media
company, you can capture editorial
judgment across thousands of pieces and
start to develop a taste that helps
individual editors scale their
attention. The companies that have been
doing this, often informally for years,
already tend to dominate their markets.
Epic Systems did not win in healthcare
by having better technology. It won by
spending decades encoding clinical
workflows from thousands of hospitals
into a deeply integrated platform. And
the result decades later is very very
clear. And clinical workflows were not
always easy to discover. The development
team from Epic had to go onsite
shadowing doctors, watching workflows,
absorbing domain constraints to build
the systems that clinicians need. And
the result is a system that can handle
over 300 million patient records and a
system that is so embedded in clinical
operations that switching costs are
structural. It's the ultimate system of
record. And the mode here is not the
software. It's the encoded judgment
about what the software needs to get
right. Built rejection by rejection,
workflow by workflow, failure by failure
across thousands of hospitals. This is a
lesson that people who are panicking
about software as a service need to
learn. When you have a system that is
built essentially out of encoded taste
at scale to the point where it becomes
structural for businesses, it is very
difficult to rip out. Bloomberg did the
same thing in financial data. When you
have a vertical SAS company that really
owns a niche, you're doing some version
of this. What's new is that AI makes the
encoding cycle much faster than it used
to be. AI can generate a provocation.
The expert can reject it. The rejection
can get encoded. The library can grow.
And the ratio of hours spent by expert
to encoded constraints. And essentially,
the taste bar improves every single
cycle because you're saving all of those
nos. But the infrastructure to make all
of this possible has really not been
there in the age of AI. As far as I can
tell, almost nobody is talking about how
you scale your nose. This is not a small
oversight. It's the largest structural
gap in the AI tool ecosystem. All of the
organizations using AI are generating
rejections at grassroots at the
individual users see all the time. And
every single one of those almost without
exception is falling on the floor. And
the right solution is not a separate
tool. It's not a spreadsheet. It's not a
database. It's not a dashboard because
people won't context switch. I believe
the capture has to happen where the work
happens inside the conversation as a
side effect of the rejection you're
already performing. And I believe that
so strongly I built something for it. If
you head over to the Substack, I've put
together a little solution that is
designed at least at the personal or
maybe a small team level to enable you
to start to log and encode your
rejections without ever leaving your
chat tool. How are we doing that via MCP
server and a nice database? It's not
that fancy. You can set it up on your
own, I'm sure. But for those of you who
want a quick head start, I've got it.
Simple. I want to stop dropping as many
rejections on the floor as I've been
doing personally, as others have been
doing. It became so much of a pain point
for me, I had to build something to
solve it. And I realized as I looked
around, nobody else was looking at it
this way. And this has some really
interesting implications if you're in
hiring or if you're in talent
upskilling. Because one of the things
that you get for free if you start to
create a taste bar like this and make it
accessible via MCP server is you start
to enable people who would otherwise not
have access to the taste of a very
senior person. They can get that just by
hitting the MCP server and coming back
with it. They can get that perspective.
This means that junior positions where
people develop recognition can be
accelerated because juniors can get a
sense of does this hit the bar or not
very very quickly and start to access
that accumulated context of taste that
accumulated ability to articulate that
their seniors have and that we have been
losing in our talent and upskilling
career ladders for the past few years.
It's one of the reasons that juniors are
in crisis is we don't have the mixing we
used to have between juniors and seniors
in various disciplines and we need to
fix it because how is work going to get
done in 10 years if no one has learned
anything and so part of what I'm doing
with something like a constraint library
which is kind of what I call this is I'm
trying to jumpstart the idea that taste
is scalable taste is a learnable skill
taste is something not only that AI can
learn but humans can learn too and
Because taste is individual typically to
a particular team, a particular firm.
You're going to need to build this for
yourself. I can't give you a universal
taste library because everybody has
their own perspective inside their
business, but I can show you how to
build one and give you a kit for it and
I can let you do it quickly. That part I
could do. And I think it's really
important to think about it
intentionally regardless of whether you
want to sort of grab my kit or do it
yourself because if you're not thinking
about your constraints, you're basically
telling your AI, I'm willing to just
iteratively work with you and waste my
hours. And you're telling your juniors
on your team, hey, it's okay. We're not
really going to teach you and we're just
going to hope you learn by osmosis on
Zoom calls. And that doesn't work. So
Andre Carpathy's framework, which is
what you can verify, you can automate,
has a correlary that should keep you up
at night. The frontier of AI value is
identical to the frontier of your
organization's taste. Where your
capacity to verify quality extends, AI
can create more value. Where it doesn't,
AI can generate more risk. Not
theoretical risk, by the way, but
compounding silent risk of an
organization that generates more and
more and more while understanding less
and eventually doesn't know what's going
on because the output kind of looks
good, but you've forgotten where the bar
is. So, your anti-slop strategy is not
be more careful. It's not give people
more lectures. It's not even write
better prompts. is developing and
institutionalizing and eventually
automating the human skill of rejection
so that the human skill of rejection can
scale. It's not that we see a world
where humans aren't going to have taste.
It's actually quite the opposite. We
love that humans have excellent taste
and we want to give them more time to
look at different kinds of mistakes
because one thing I'm fairly confident
of is that we're not going to run out of
things to have a high quality bar about.
And so if you're an exec, the
competitive mode here is not which AI
vendor you choose. Models are getting
commoditized. The mode is going to be
the depth and durability of your
organization's encoded taste. The
constraint library that makes AI output
reliable in your domain. You're going to
have to audit it and you're going to
have to ask yourself where are the
domain experts. Are those rejections
being captured? Are they evaporating?
You're going to have to start treating
encoded domain judgment as an asset
class because it is one. And if your job
is managing a team, you're going to have
to create space for articulation. When
someone rejects AI output, you should be
challenging them to be able to explain
why and to be able to socialize that
skill set. It's an investment, right? A
team that can articulate rejections is
building a shared understanding of
quality that persists across projects
that across personnel changes, across
tool migrations. Whereas a team that is
just silently and individually fixing AI
output is not really growing at all. And
if you're an individual contributor,
your most valuable professional
development isn't learning the newest
tool. Tools are going to change. It's
actually deepening your ability to
recognize when something isn't working.
Practicing the ability to articulate
what is wrong and how to fix it and then
making sure that you are part of or
helping to stand up a system where that
taste can scale. And if you're an
entrepreneur, I would challenge you to
think about building a product that
enables us to start to scale taste. Look
at how we can take these rejections and
scale them out. And I'm going to say it
can't be a special new pane of glass. It
can't be a special new website. We're
not going to context switch. We're not
going to tool switch. This needs to be
seamless. This needs to be something
that does not cost us attention since
attention is scarce enough. We all have
the job of learning to say no to new and
more interesting things. And that means
we have the job of articulating what is
wrong with our current AI outputs and a
high level of fidelity, storing them
somewhere and then using those to both
improve AI outputs and also train folks
who are younger in the career path. If
we don't do that, we're going to regret
it. That's the job now. So much else is
becoming commoditized. But being able to
say this is what's really excellent,
that's something you can get excited
about because you can raise your taste
bar. So there you go. That's your
challenge. If you're curious about sort
of how to set that up quickly, I've put
a kit together on the Substack. Uh and
if you want, honestly, you could
probably feed this transcript into your
LLM of choice and get something coded
up. That's just how wild and woolly this
world is now. Best of luck.